1
Chicken Parmesan 
['2 cups fine dry breadcrumbs', '1 cup all-purpose flour', '4 large eggs', '1 cup whole milk', '8 small skinless, boneless chicken thighs, pounded to 1/2" thickness', 'Kosher salt, freshly ground pepper', 'N/A freshly ground pepper', '8 tablespoons olive oil', '8 tablespoons prepared sun-dried tomato pesto', '1 pound fresh mozzarella, cut into 8 slices', '1/2 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes', '4 cups prepared marinara sauce, warmed', 'Finely grated Parmesan (for serving)']
Place breadcrumbs and flour in 2 separate shallow bowls. Whisk eggs and milk in a medium bowl. Season chicken with salt and pepper. Dredge in flour, shaking off excess. Coat with beaten egg mixture, allowing excess to drip back into bowl. Coat with breadcrumbs, pressing to adhere. Place on a large plate or rimmed baking sheet. Heat 2 tablespoons oil in a large skillet over medium heat. Working in 4 batches, cook thighs until chicken is golden brown and cooked through, about 4 minutes per side; transfer to a paper towel-lined plate. Wipe skillet clean and add 2 tablespoons oil between batches. Preheat broiler. Lay 4 cutlets on a foil-lined baking sheet; spread each with 2 tablespoons pesto, top with a slice of cheese, and sprinkle with red pepper. Top with remaining cutlets and cheese. Broil until cheese browns, about 4 minutes. Divide sauce and chicken among shallow bowls and top with Parmesan.
Place breadcrumbs and flour in 2 separate shallow bowls. Whisk eggs and milk in a medium bowl. Season chicken with salt and pepper. Dredge in flour, shaking off excess. Coat with beaten egg mixture, allowing excess to drip back into bowl. Coat with breadcrumbs, pressing to adhere. Place on a large plate or rimmed baking sheet.
Heat 2 tablespoons oil in a large skillet over medium heat. Working in 4 batches, cook thighs until chicken is golden brown and cooked through, about 4 minutes per side; transfer to a paper towel-lined plate. Wipe skillet clean and add 2 tablespoons oil between batches.
Preheat broiler. Lay 4 cutlets on a foil-lined baking sheet; spread each with 2 tablespoons pesto, top with a slice of cheese, and sprinkle with red pepper. Top with remaining cutlets and cheese. Broil until cheese browns, about 4 minutes.
Divide sauce and chicken among shallow bowls and top with Parmesan.
2
New Chicken Parmesan 
['1/3 cup extra-virgin olive oil', '2 large garlic cloves, pressed', '1/2 teaspoon salt', '1 12-ounce container grape tomatoes', '1 1/2 teaspoons dried oregano', 'Large pinch of dried crushed red pepper', '4 skinless boneless chicken breast halves (about 6 ounces each)', '1 1/4 cups finely grated Parmesan cheese, divided', '6 ounces fresh mozzarella cheese in water, drained, thinly sliced']
Preheat oven to 500° F. Whisk first 3 ingredients in large bowl. Place tomatoes in medium bowl; mix in 2 tablespoons garlic oil, then oregano and crushed red pepper. Add chicken to large bowl with remaining garlic oil and turn to coat. Place 1 cup Parmesan in pie dish. Dip 1 side of each chicken piece into cheese to coat; arrange chicken, cheese side up, on 1 half of large rimmed baking sheet. Scatter tomatoes on other half of sheet. Roast chicken until just cooked through and firm to touch, about 10 minutes. Arrange mozzarella slices atop chicken. Return to oven; roast until cheese melts, 1 to 2 minutes. Transfer chicken and tomatoes to 4 plates. Sprinkle with remaining 1/4 cup Parmesan cheese.
Preheat oven to 500° F. Whisk first 3 ingredients in large bowl. Place tomatoes in medium bowl; mix in 2 tablespoons garlic oil, then oregano and crushed red pepper. Add chicken to large bowl with remaining garlic oil and turn to coat.
Place 1 cup Parmesan in pie dish. Dip 1 side of each chicken piece into cheese to coat; arrange chicken, cheese side up, on 1 half of large rimmed baking sheet. Scatter tomatoes on other half of sheet.
Roast chicken until just cooked through and firm to touch, about 10 minutes. Arrange mozzarella slices atop chicken. Return to oven; roast until cheese melts, 1 to 2 minutes. Transfer chicken and tomatoes to 4 plates. Sprinkle with remaining 1/4 cup Parmesan cheese.
3
Quick Baked Chicken Parmesan 
['2 large eggs', '1 1/2 cups breadcrumbs or panko (Japanese breadcrumbs)', '3/4 cup finely grated Parmesan (about 2 ounces)', '5 tablespoons olive oil, divided, plus more for brushing', '3 1/2 teaspoons dried oregano, divided', '3/4 teaspoon kosher salt, divided', '3/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper, divided', '4 (6-ounce) chicken cutlets, pounded 1/2" thick', '6 ounces coarsely grated mozzarella (about 1 cup)', '1/2 medium onion, chopped', '2 garlic cloves, pressed or finely chopped', '1 (24-ounce) jar marinara sauce', '1/4 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes (optional)', '1/4 cup (packed) basil leaves, torn if large, plus more for serving']
Arrange racks in top and bottom of oven and place a rimmed baking sheet on bottom rack; preheat to 450°F. Beat eggs in a large shallow bowl. Using a fork or your fingertips, mix breadcrumbs, Parmesan, 3 Tbsp. oil, 3 tsp. oregano, 1/2 tsp. salt, and 1/2 tsp. pepper in another large shallow bowl or plate. Working with 1 cutlet at a time, dip in egg, allowing excess to drip back into bowl. Dredge in breadcrumb mixture, shaking off excess, then pressing to adhere. Transfer chicken to a baking sheet. Carefully remove preheated baking sheet from oven and generously brush with oil. Transfer chicken to baking sheet and return to bottom rack. Roast 6 minutes, then carefully flip (use a spatula to scrape under cutlets) and sprinkle with mozzarella. Place baking sheet on top rack and continue to roast until juices run clear, mozzarella is melted, and an instant-read thermometer inserted into the center of cutlet registers 165°F, about 4 minutes more. Meanwhile, heat remaining 2 Tbsp. oil in a large skillet over medium-high. Cook onion, stirring, until softened, 3–4 minutes. Add garlic and cook until fragrant, about 1 minute more. Add marinara sauce, red pepper flakes (if using), 1/4 cup basil, and remaining 1/2 tsp. oregano, 1/4 tsp. salt, and 1/4 tsp. pepper. Cook, stirring, until sauce starts to bubble. Reduce heat to medium and simmer until chicken is ready, stirring occasionally, at least 5 minutes. Divide sauce among 4 plates. Top with chicken and torn basil.
Arrange racks in top and bottom of oven and place a rimmed baking sheet on bottom rack; preheat to 450°F.
Beat eggs in a large shallow bowl. Using a fork or your fingertips, mix breadcrumbs, Parmesan, 3 Tbsp. oil, 3 tsp. oregano, 1/2 tsp. salt, and 1/2 tsp. pepper in another large shallow bowl or plate.
Working with 1 cutlet at a time, dip in egg, allowing excess to drip back into bowl. Dredge in breadcrumb mixture, shaking off excess, then pressing to adhere. Transfer chicken to a baking sheet.
Carefully remove preheated baking sheet from oven and generously brush with oil. Transfer chicken to baking sheet and return to bottom rack. Roast 6 minutes, then carefully flip (use a spatula to scrape under cutlets) and sprinkle with mozzarella. Place baking sheet on top rack and continue to roast until juices run clear, mozzarella is melted, and an instant-read thermometer inserted into the center of cutlet registers 165°F, about 4 minutes more.
Meanwhile, heat remaining 2 Tbsp. oil in a large skillet over medium-high. Cook onion, stirring, until softened, 3–4 minutes. Add garlic and cook until fragrant, about 1 minute more. Add marinara sauce, red pepper flakes (if using), 1/4 cup basil, and remaining 1/2 tsp. oregano, 1/4 tsp. salt, and 1/4 tsp. pepper. Cook, stirring, until sauce starts to bubble. Reduce heat to medium and simmer until chicken is ready, stirring occasionally, at least 5 minutes.
Divide sauce among 4 plates. Top with chicken and torn basil.
4
Chicken Parmesan Burgers 
['10 1/2-inch-thick slices French bread (4 inches in diameter); 8 slices toasted, 2 slices (crust removed) diced', '1/2 cup finely grated Parmesan cheese', '4 tablespoons minced fresh basil, divided, plus 12 large basil leaves', '3/4 cup purchased refrigerated marinara sauce', '12 ounces ground chicken (white meat)', '2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil, divided', '1 tablespoon grated onion', '1/4 teaspoon salt', '4 ounces whole-milk mozzarella cheese, thinly sliced', '4 large radicchio leaves']
Blend diced bread and Parmesan in processor to fine crumbs. Transfer to pie dish; mix in 2 tablespoons minced basil. Mix marinara and 2 tablespoons basil in small saucepan. Transfer 1 1/2 tablespoons sauce to large bowl. Add chicken, 1/2 tablespoon oil, onion, and 1/4 teaspoon salt. Sprinkle with pepper; blend. Shape into four 1/2-inch-thick patties; coat with crumbs. Heat sauce over low heat. Heat 1 1/2 tablespoons oil in large nonstick skillet over medium heat. Cook patties until bottoms are crusty, 4 minutes. Turn patties over; top with cheese. Cook 3 minutes. Cover; cook until cooked through and cheese is melted, about 1 minute. Assemble burgers with bread, radicchio, basil leaves, and warm marinara.
Blend diced bread and Parmesan in processor to fine crumbs. Transfer to pie dish; mix in 2 tablespoons minced basil.
Mix marinara and 2 tablespoons basil in small saucepan. Transfer 1 1/2 tablespoons sauce to large bowl. Add chicken, 1/2 tablespoon oil, onion, and 1/4 teaspoon salt. Sprinkle with pepper; blend. Shape into four 1/2-inch-thick patties; coat with crumbs. Heat sauce over low heat.
Heat 1 1/2 tablespoons oil in large nonstick skillet over medium heat. Cook patties until bottoms are crusty, 4 minutes. Turn patties over; top with cheese. Cook 3 minutes. Cover; cook until cooked through and cheese is melted, about 1 minute.
Assemble burgers with bread, radicchio, basil leaves, and warm marinara.
5
Chicken Parmesan Heros 
['3 tablespoons olive oil', '1 small onion, finely chopped', '2 garlic cloves, chopped', '2 (28-ounce) cans whole tomatoes in purée, puréed in a blender until smooth', '2 teaspoons salt', '3/4 teaspoon black pepper', '6 skinless boneless chicken breast halves (2 lb total)', '2 cups all-purpose flour', '3 1/2 cups fine fresh bread crumbs (from firm white sandwich bread), lightly toasted', '1 cup finely grated Parmigiano-Reggiano (3 ounces)', '5 large eggs, lightly beaten', '2 cups vegetable oil', '4 (12-inch-long) loaves Italian bread, halved lengthwise', '1 lb fresh mozzarella, thinly sliced']
Make tomato sauce: Heat olive oil in a 4- to 5-quart heavy saucepan over moderately high heat until hot but not smoking, then sauté onion, stirring occasionally, until golden, about 5 minutes. Add garlic and sauté, stirring, 1 minute. Add tomato purée, 1/2 teaspoon salt, and 1/4 teaspoon pepper and simmer, uncovered, stirring occasionally, until slightly thickened, about 30 minutes.
Heat olive oil in a 4- to 5-quart heavy saucepan over moderately high heat until hot but not smoking, then sauté onion, stirring occasionally, until golden, about 5 minutes. Add garlic and sauté, stirring, 1 minute. Add tomato purée, 1/2 teaspoon salt, and 1/4 teaspoon pepper and simmer, uncovered, stirring occasionally, until slightly thickened, about 30 minutes.
Prepare chicken: Gently pound chicken breasts to 1/3-inch thickness between 2 sheets of plastic wrap using a flat meat pounder or a rolling pin. Season with salt and pepper. Stir together flour, remaining 1/2 teaspoon salt, and remaining 1/2 teaspoon pepper in a shallow bowl, then stir together bread crumbs and Parmigiano-Reggiano in another shallow bowl. Dredge chicken slices in flour, shaking off excess, then dip in egg, letting excess drip off, and dredge in bread crumbs until evenly coated. Transfer chicken to sheets of wax paper, arranging slices in 1 layer. Preheat oven to 400°F. Heat vegetable oil in a deep 12-inch heavy skillet over moderately high heat until hot but not smoking, then Fry chicken 3 pieces at a time, turning over once, until golden brown and just cooked through, about 6 minutes per batch. Transfer with tongs to paper towels to drain.
Gently pound chicken breasts to 1/3-inch thickness between 2 sheets of plastic wrap using a flat meat pounder or a rolling pin. Season with salt and pepper.
Stir together flour, remaining 1/2 teaspoon salt, and remaining 1/2 teaspoon pepper in a shallow bowl, then stir together bread crumbs and Parmigiano-Reggiano in another shallow bowl.
Dredge chicken slices in flour, shaking off excess, then dip in egg, letting excess drip off, and dredge in bread crumbs until evenly coated. Transfer chicken to sheets of wax paper, arranging slices in 1 layer.
Preheat oven to 400°F.
Heat vegetable oil in a deep 12-inch heavy skillet over moderately high heat until hot but not smoking, then Fry chicken 3 pieces at a time, turning over once, until golden brown and just cooked through, about 6 minutes per batch. Transfer with tongs to paper towels to drain.
Arrange bottom halves of bread loaves on a large baking sheet and tops on another large baking sheet, all with cut sides up. Spread 1/4 cup tomato sauce on each top and bottom. Divide chicken between bottom halves. Top each (open-faced) sandwich with 1/4 cup tomato sauce and one fourth of mozzarella. Bake open-faced sandwiches in lower third of oven until cheese melts, about 3 minutes. When cheese begins to melt, put tops of loaves in upper third of oven and bake until edges are golden, 3 to 4 minutes (watch tops closely; they burn easily). Put tops on bottoms to make sandwiches, then slice into serving pieces.
Arrange bottom halves of bread loaves on a large baking sheet and tops on another large baking sheet, all with cut sides up. Spread 1/4 cup tomato sauce on each top and bottom. Divide chicken between bottom halves. Top each (open-faced) sandwich with 1/4 cup tomato sauce and one fourth of mozzarella.
Bake open-faced sandwiches in lower third of oven until cheese melts, about 3 minutes. When cheese begins to melt, put tops of loaves in upper third of oven and bake until edges are golden, 3 to 4 minutes (watch tops closely; they burn easily). Put tops on bottoms to make sandwiches, then slice into serving pieces.
